Here's the wrong part. It turns into
sugar
and then gets stored as body fat. Okay.
That's not gluconeogenesis.
That's a lie. Protein does not become
sugar. I mean,
even even that is like an
oversimplification to the point where
it's just ludicrously wrong.
>> [music]
>> Hi. My name is John Jaquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering which
gives me a unique perspective,
especially today, because a lot of
people are getting one little aspect of
nutrition profoundly wrong and it's been
profoundly wrong for years.
And I I I got to correct it now.
Those of you who know my style, I don't
call people out. I don't like pointing
out who's wrong. It's really easy to be
wrong cuz there's a lot of bad
information out there. So, I don't like
ridiculing people. Like I'm a gentleman.
I know most people in the fitness
industry are not.
But, I am. So,
not calling anybody out, but let's talk
about gluconeogenesis.
So, very frequently, and this is
especially from the social media
commenters,
not so much
the creators. So, you know, creators are
obviously held to a higher standard.
Commenters can say whatever ludicrous
thing they want to and they almost
always do. And and here here is
what you'll see.
Somebody who eats a high protein diet
and I just saw this on one of Brad
Schoenfeld's posts. He's somebody I I
respect very much.
But, the paper confused me because it
said something about how eating protein
makes your waist bigger and it's like
anyone who's trained and eaten food
knows that's absolutely not true.
So, really curious as to what's wrong
with that study or maybe how they looked
at it because it doesn't make much
sense. But, in the comments, I saw so
many people saying, "Well, it's because
people are getting fat cuz when you eat
too much protein, and here's the wrong
part, it turns into sugar
and then gets stored as body fat." Okay.
That's not gluconeogenesis.
That's a lie. Protein does not become
sugar. I mean,
even even that is like an
oversimplification to the point where
it's just ludicrously wrong. But, what
happens is when you don't have very much
glucose in your nutrition and your body
needs some,
it can take some protein
and convert it to glucose.
But, this is demand
driven.
And I'm speaking slow because I want to
make that point, demand driven. Your
brain needs some glucose or your muscle
needs some glucose, your body will make
exactly how much is needed, and it goes
to the intended tissue.
So, it's made and then it has an
address. It's think of it like an Amazon
shipping center. It's going
to a particular place in the body
because it's being called for
at that particular place in the body.
And anything that is outside of that
function that I just explained is not
gluconeogenesis and it's also not
happening. So, the idea that you can eat
too much protein and store body fat from
it
doesn't happen. So, when you eat more
protein than your body can
really handle digesting and using for
protein synthesis, what happens is your
body goes through
thermogenesis.
Thermogenesis is when your body
temperature goes up
so that you can use that energy provided
by the protein because your body has no
mechanism for storing protein as body
fat.
None. Your body can store fat as fat.
It can store carbohydrates as fat. It
cannot
store protein as fat. And this
gluconeogenesis, again, it is sort of
the fail-safe
for
individuals who don't get enough
carbohydrates in their diet. It's okay.
The body is there to give them what they
need and only what they need. So, the
next time you see somebody who says if
you eat too much protein it turns into
sugar, ignore that person. Also,
probably just don't read the comments
cuz the comments are usually full of
people who make stupid comments like
this. So, I hope this helped and I hope
you can navigate the nutrition
conversations and what you're trying to
do with your nutrition a little bit
easier. Leave me a comment and let me
know if this helped you and I'll see you
on the next one. If this video helped
you, I want you to subscribe and follow.
I'm going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights.
>> [music]
>> We've got the answer for you.